Rules Explanations
The Draft
A game of Compile starts with a draft. The youngest player drafts first, or the players may
agree on another way to determine who drafts first. Then, drafting proceeds as follows:
● The first player chooses one protocol from the available protocols, placing it in their left
protocol space.
● The second player chooses two protocols from the available protocols, placing them in
their left and middle protocol spaces in the order they were drafted.
● The first player chooses two protocols from the available protocols, placing them in their
middle and right protocol spaces in the order they were drafted.
● The second player chooses one protocol from the available protocols, placing it in their
right protocol space.
Playing a Card
When playing a card, the player chooses the line in which the card is played and the
orientation of that card. If the orientation of that card is face-up, the only line that card may
be played into is the line with the protocol that matches that card. If the orientation of that
card is face-down, it may be played into any line. Note that you can play stolen cards
face-up on your side as long as the line has the matching protocol.
Some card effects allow you to play a card from an alternative source (i.e. playing the top of
your deck). When doing so, follow all instructions on how and where to play those cards.
Card Text
All card text is treated as an effect, not a cost. If you cannot complete the text of a card (i.e.
“You discard 1 card.” when you have no cards in hand) the card is still played. If there is an
“if” clause associated with a text you cannot complete (i.e. Fire 2 “Discard 1 card. If you do,
return 1 card.”) you do not gain the benefit without having completed the instruction.
Treat each sentence separately on a card. In the case of Fire 4 “Discard 1 or more cards.
Draw the amount discarded plus 1.” if you have no cards in hand and thus discard no cards,
you still draw 1 card for the second sentence.
Unless the word “may” is used, all text must be resolved as much as possible (i.e. Water 4
“Return 1 of your cards” and Water 4 is the only valid selection, thus it returns itself). If the
game state can be changed by a played or triggered effect, the game state must be
changed.
2
Text Entering Play
When a card’s text enters play by being played, flipped, or uncovered, the owner of that card
decides how that text resolves.
Committed Cards
When cards move between zones (e.g. hand/deck to the field for a play, moving from one
line to another for a shift, or field to the trash from a delete), they first leave their current
zone and get “committed” to the new zone. When the consequences of them leaving their
current zone are done (e.g. uncovering a card and triggering its middle command), the
committed card lands in the new zone.
While a card is committed (i.e. moving between zones), it maintains its orientation, target
zone that it’s moving to, and cannot be manipulated in any way by another game effect.
Nothing can prevent a committed card from entering the field in the zone that it was
committed to.
If the committed card will cover a card with a “When this card would be covered: first…”
text, the soon-to-be-covered card resolves its triggered effect and any other resulting
triggers before the committed card enters the line. If, through the triggering of that “When
this card would be covered: first…” effect, either player gains the ability to manipulate a
card, the committed card IS NOT a valid selection.
More than one card can be committed to a line at a time. They will enter the line in the order
they were committed, one at a time.
Selecting and Targeting Cards for Effects
By default, only uncovered cards on either player's side of the field can be selected as the
target of a flip, delete, return, shift, or reveal (e.g. "Flip 1 card." can be understood as "Flip 1
uncovered card.").
Unless otherwise specified, your cards or your opponent's cards can both be selected (e.g.
For "Flip 1 card." you can select your uncovered cards or your opponent's uncovered cards
as targets but "Flip 1 of your cards." can only target yours).
Covered cards can be selected by text that uses "covered" (e.g. "Flip 1 covered card.").
“All cards” refers to covered and uncovered cards (e.g. “Return all cards with a value of 2 in
1 line.” returns all covered and uncovered cards with a value of 2 in a selected line.)
If text uses "this card" or "that card", then the target is implied and no selection is
necessary. The card referred to, regardless of being covered or uncovered, can be
manipulated (e.g. "Flip 1 card. Shift that card to this line." The flip would follow the normal
selection rules. Then the shift can manipulate the card regardless of whether it has been
covered since.)
3
Invalid Effects
Cards not in a stack can’t be flipped, deleted, or shifted.
Rearranging Protocols
When rearranging protocols, the end state of that rearrangement must be different from the
start state.
Shifting a Card
When a card is shifted, it is moved to a different line on the same side of the field. The card
immediately under the shifting card is made the uncovered card, resolving any text that was
activated as a result, and the shifting card is considered “committed”. The shifting card
cannot be selected for any effects until its shift is resolved. If there’s already a stack in the
line it moves to, the shifted card is made the uncovered card of that stack.
Changing Ownership
Cards may change ownership throughout the game. Recompiling a protocol is the most
common way for this to happen. Cards can be played face-up into the line with the matching
protocol, even if that protocol is your opponent’s. Cards that have changed ownership retain
their new ownership, even when they are put into the trash or shuffled into a deck.
Processing Multiple Cards Triggering Simultaneously
When there are multiple cards that trigger at the same time (e.g. Two cards in play each
have a command with “After a card is discarded:” and a card is discarded), the current
player decides the order in which the cards are processed.
Start and End Effects During Those Phases
When entering the Start phase on your turn, note all visible commands in your stacks that
have a “Start:” trigger. Perform the commands you noted, one at a time, in the order of your
choice. If a command leaves play, it doesn’t happen. If a “Start:” command is added to the
field after the beginning of the Start phase when commands were noted, it doesn’t do
anything.
All of the above is the same for the End phase and “End:” commands.
Running Out of Cards
If a player cannot Compile, draw cards, or play cards on their turn, they skip their Action
step.
4
Public and Private Information
Players’ decks are randomized at the start of the game and after any reshuffle, and the
order and contents of each player’s deck is secret. Players’ hands are private information,
only known by that player. All face-up cards in the field and in either player’s trash are public
information. Any player may look at the text of any public information at any time, as long as
they preserve the card’s placement and orientation. Any player may ask their opponent at
any time the number of cards in their hand or deck, but not the contents of either.
Face-down cards in the field are all private information. When playing a card from the top of
a deck face-down, you may not look at the face of that card before committing it to a line. A
player may only look at face-down cards on their side of the field after they are in the field.
Clear Cache
Each turn, during the Check Cache phase, the active player checks to see if they have more
than 5 cards in their hand. If they do, they discard down to 5 cards in hand. This discard
action is called Clear Cache.
Compiling
When a player reaches the Check Compile phase of their turn, they check to see if they
have 10 or more value in a stack, and more value than their opponent in that line. If they do,
they meet the requirements for compiling in that line. If they meet the requirements for
compiling in more than one line, they choose which line they want to compile. If a player can
compile, they must compile.
When compiling, first, if the compiling player has the control component, they return it to its
neutral state and may rearrange one player’s protocols — either theirs or their opponent’s.
Second, the compiling player deletes all cards in the compiling line. This is an “all” effect,
so those deletions happen simultaneously, not sequentially — no middle command enters
play or triggers.
Finally, flip that player’s protocol in that line to its “Compiled” side. If the protocol is already
on its “Compiled” side, that player instead draws the top card of their opponent’s deck.
Once compiling has begun, if, through card effects, the value in the compiling stack is
reduced to less than 10, or less than the opponent’s value, the compiling still resolves.
Control Component
During the Control Phase, the active player checks to see if they have a higher value than
their opponent in at least 2 lines. If they do, they gain the control component, either from the
neutral position or from the other player. When the player with the control component
5
compiles or refreshes, first the control component is returned to its neutral position and that
player may rearrange one players’ protocols — either theirs or their opponent’s — then they
complete their compile or refresh. Even if they choose not to rearrange protocols, the control
component is still returned to its neutral position.
Effects happening “after” something else
If a card has a command that triggers “after” something else happens (e.g. “After you
discard cards:” or “After your opponent compiles:”), it is performed when the triggering effect
and all of its consequences are completely resolved. So, if a card’s command triggers “After
your opponent compiles:”, the compile and all of its steps — use control, delete, protocol flip
— would complete before the “after” command finally happens.
Exceptions
The rules of Compile may have exceptions based on the state of play and the text of cards
in the field. If a card gives you permission to do a thing that is “against the rules”, the card
may break the rules.
FAQ
What do the “draw” and “discard” keywords mean?
“Draw X card(s)” makes the owner of the command take the top X card(s) from their deck
and add them to their hand. If their deck does not have enough cards to fulfill the draw, the
player shuffles their trash to make a new deck, then draws cards to complete their draw. The
effect “draw 3 cards”, is not the same as “draw 1 card, draw 1 card, draw 1 card” — you
draw all three cards, then any effects that trigger off the drawing of cards activate. “Discard X
card(s)” makes the owner of the command choose X cards from their hand and put them in
their trash. The effect “discard 2 cards”, is not the same as “discard 1 card, discard 1 card”
— you discard 2 cards, then any effects that trigger off the discarding of cards activate.
What does the keyword “reveal” mean?
Reveal means to show both players in the game whatever information is being revealed,
then return it to its previous state. Revealing a card temporarily makes that card’s face
public information. (i.e. Light 2 “...Reveal 1 face-down card. You may shift or flip that card.”
chooses an uncovered face-down card in play, shows both players the face of that card,
then returns it to its face-down orientation. THEN, you may flip it in its current position,
allowing its text to enter play, shift it to another line in its face-down orientation, or do
neither.)
6
Can a card with a top command delete itself if it is covered?
Top command text is in play as long as the card is face-up. If a card with a top command
would shift or delete itself, it does so even if it is covered. (i.e. Death 1 “...then delete this
card” still deletes itself, even if it is covered.)
Am I allowed to look at cards I’m playing from the top of my deck
face-down before I play them?
When playing the top card of your deck face-down, you cannot look at it until after it is in the
field. You will not know what card it is until it is fully in play, but then you may look at it as
normal.
If an effect discards a card from somewhere other than my
hand, does it trigger Plague 1 or cards like it?
If an effect happens when someone discards cards, that includes both discarding from hand
and discarding from the top of a deck, unless it says otherwise. If it uses the word “discard”,
it is a discard effect.
When I compile, do I trigger effects as cards are deleted from the
stack?
No. The compiling effect deletes all cards in that line, then flips your protocol in that line to
the “Compiled” side. When deleting “all” cards in a line, the cards are deleted simultaneously
and they do not trigger as each one is deleted.
When do I refill my deck?
Unless a card's text specifies, the only way a player refills their deck is when it is empty and
they would draw a card from it. When this happens, the player shuffles their trash
face-down, makes it their deck, and then completes the draw. Effects that discard, play, or
reveal the top card of the deck do nothing if there are no cards in the deck.
Is zero an even number?
0 is an even number.
What is the difference between “Line” and “Stack"?
A line is an area of play that is 1/3rd of the field, composed of 2 protocols that dictate which
cards may be played face-up into that line. A stack is one player’s portion of a line where
they have cards. A line has space for one stack per player.
7
Do I have to use the control component when I compile or
refresh?
When you compile or refresh while having the control component, it resets to the neutral
position, even if you choose not to rearrange any protocols.
What is the difference between “All” and “Each”?
“All” means that the text affects cards matching its criteria simultaneously, regardless of their
covered/uncovered status, all happening at once.
For “Each”, you note the valid objects referenced by the “each” (e.g. “Flip each other face-up
card.” you note each of the face-up uncovered cards that are not this card. For “Delete 1
card in each other line.” you note each line that this card isn’t in.) After noting the relevant
objects, you process each of them one at a time, performing the necessary action on each.
The owner of the card decides the order in which the noted objects get addressed. “Each”
doesn’t let you interact with covered cards unless otherwise stated.
If I can compile, do I have to?
Yes. If you meet the requirements for compiling you must use your action to compile. All
other phases of your turn happen as normal.
If I can compile more than one line, do I compile more than one?
No. You choose one line that meets the requirements for compiling and compile that line
only this turn. If you still have met the requirements to compile another line on your next
turn, you compile that line then.
Can I refresh when I have 5 or more cards in hand?
No. You must have fewer than 5 cards in hand to refresh.
Can I use End triggers that are revealed during the End phase?
No. Only End effects that are visible at the beginning of the End phase activate.
Can a covered card be uncovered while in a stack?
No. A covered card is only uncovered if it becomes the card with no other cards on top of it.
The uncovered card in a stack is covering all cards in a stack. A stack only has one
uncovered card at time.
8
Does a card’s middle command happen if it’s flipped face-up while
covered?
No. Because the card is always considered to be covered, its middle text never comes
into play.
Card Clarifications, Rulings, and Errata
Main 1
Death 0
● CLARIFICATION: When Death 0's middle command triggers, the owner notes the lines
that need to be acted in. Then, they choose which line to process, one at a time. For
each line, they select an uncovered card to delete, processing the consequences of that
delete before addressing the next line.
Death 1
● ERRATA(10/2024): The top command should be: “Start: You may draw 1 card. If you do,
delete 1 other card. Then, delete this card.”
Fire 0
● ERRATA(12/2024): The bottom command should be: “When this card would be covered:
First, draw 1 card. Then, flip 1 other card.”
Gravity 2
● CLARIFICATION: Gravity 2 will still shift the flipped card if it’s covered. “That card”
references a specific card that supersedes the covered manipulation rule.
Life 0
● ERRATA(10/2024): The top command should be: “End: If this card is covered, delete
this card.” This card should have no bottom command.
● CLARIFICATION: When Life 0's middle command triggers, the owner notes the lines that
need to be acted in. Then, they choose which line to process, one at a time. For each
line, they play the top card of their deck face-down, processing the consequences of that
9
card play before addressing the next line. If Life 0 gets covered during this process, its
middle command stops.
● CLARIFICATION: Playing cards from the top of a deck does not force a shuffle if that
deck is empty.
Light 0
● CLARIFICATION: The middle command reads ”Flip 1 card. Draw cards equal to that
card’s value.” When played, the card owner chooses one uncovered card, flips that card,
and then resolves any triggered text. Then, they draw cards equal to the current value of
the chosen card (e.g. Light 0 selects Fire 5. First, Fire 5 is flipped face-down. Then, Light
0 checks the current value of the card, which is now 2. As a result, the active player
draws 2 cards.)
● RULING: If the chosen card is removed from play, it is still referred to directly by the "that
card" text on Light 0. (e.g. Light 0 selects Metal 6. First, Metal 6's top command triggers:
because it is about to be flipped, it deletes itself. Then, Light 0 checks the value of Metal
6, and, if it’s in the trash, its current value is 6 since all cards in the trash are face-up.
The active player draws 6 cards. If the Metal 6 is private information (i.e. it was shuffled
into your deck) it has a value of 2.)
Light 3
● CLARIFICATION: The face-down cards shifted by Light 3 maintain the same relative
positioning in their stacks and are all moved to the same line.
Metal 1
● ERRATA(12/2024): The middle command should be: “Draw 2 cards. Your opponent
cannot compile on their next turn.”
● CLARIFICATION: Metal 1 prevents your opponent from taking the compile action on
their next turn, provided the text is visible. Since a player gets 1 action on their turn
(compile, play, or refresh), they must either play or refresh on their next turn since they
cannot compile.
Metal 6
● CLARIFICATION: When Metal 6 deletes itself because of its top command, if it is
covering a card with text that would trigger, that text triggers before the committed card
enters the field.
● CLARIFICATION: When Metal 6 deletes itself as a result of being flipped, the “flip”
command is used up and cannot be used on another card, nor can it be used on Metal 6
in the trash, as cards in the trash can’t be flipped.
10
Plague 3
● ERRATA(9/2025): The middle command should be “Flip each other uncovered face-up
card.” Note that this doesn’t change the card’s functionality but makes its intended use
case more clear.
● CLARIFICATION: The middle command reads “Flip each other face-up card.” This only
affects uncovered cards, since it does not say “all”.
● CLARIFICATION: When Plague 3's middle command triggers, the owner notes each
uncovered face-up card. Then, they choose which card to process, one at a time. For
each card, they flip it and process any consequences before addressing the next card.
Speed 2
● CLARIFICATION: When compiling, all cards in the line are deleted at the same time.
When Speed 2 would be deleted this way, instead, you shift it to another line, preventing
the delete of Speed 2 only, and not altering the compile.
Spirit 0
● CLARIFICATION: When you refresh as instructed, it is a normal refresh action, including
spending the control component, if applicable.
Spirit 1
● ERRATA(10/2024): The top command should be: “When you play cards face-up, they
may be played without matching protocols.”
Water 1
● CLARIFICATION: When Water 1's middle command triggers, the owner notes the lines
that need to be acted in. Then, they choose which line to process, one at a time. For
each line, they play the top card of their deck face-down, processing the consequences
of that card play before addressing the next line.
● CLARIFICATION: Playing cards from the top of a deck does not force a shuffle if that
deck is empty.
Aux 1
Hate 2
● ERRATA(10/2024): The middle command should be: “Delete your highest value
uncovered card. Delete your opponent's highest value uncovered card.”
● CLARIFICATION: Multiple cards can be tied for the highest value. The player would
choose one of the tied cards.
11
● CLARIFICATION: If Hate 2 is the highest value card you own it deletes itself as a result
of the first clause. Thus, the second clause no longer exists and does not trigger.

Main 2
Chaos 0
● ERRATA(9/2025): The middle command should be: “Flip 1 covered card in each line.”
● CLARIFICATION: When Chaos 0's middle command triggers, the owner notes each line
that needs to be acted in. Then, they choose which line to process, one at a time.
For each line, they select a covered card to flip, processing the consequences of that
flip before addressing the next line. Covered cards never activate their middle
command when flipped.
Chaos 1
● CLARIFICATION: You must make a change to the protocols of both players.
Corruption 6
● CLARIFICATION: This will trigger the middle command of the card it was covering if it
deletes itself at the end of turn.
Courage 3
● CLARIFICATION: Multiple lines can be tied for “highest total value”. In this case, the
player chooses.
Ice 6
● CLARIFICATION: Cards are drawn in a batch. Refreshing with 0 cards in hand will
draw you 5 cards.
Luck 0
● CLARIFICATION: The played card must be one that you drew with Luck 0. You can
play the card face-up or face-down.
Luck 1
● ERRATA(9/2025): The middle command should be: “Play the top card of your deck
face-down. Flip that card, ignoring its middle command.”
● CLARIFICATION: The middle command is only ignored for the flip.
Luck 3
● ERRATA(8/2025): The middle command should be: “State a protocol. Discard the top
card of your opponent's deck. If the discarded card matched the stated protocol, delete
12
1 card.”
Mirror 1
● CLARIFICATION: Mirror 1’s bottom text is blocked by Fear 0 because the text is treated
“as if it were on this card” but there’s no text to copy because Fear 0 says the “cards
do not have middle commands”.
Mirror 2
● CLARIFICATION: The swapped cards keep the same relative positions. A stack must
have at least 1 card in it to swap.
Mirror 3
● CLARIFICATION: If Mirror 3 flips itself first, the second flip doesn’t happen.
Peace 1
● CLARIFICATION: The owner decides which player discards their hand first.
Smoke 0 and 3
● CLARIFICATION: Both Smoke 0 and 3 count your opponent’s face-down cards.
Time 2
● ERRATA (8/2025): The top command should be: “After you shuffle your deck: Draw 1
card. Then, you may shift this card.”
